There are 9 key differences when comparing Engintron with other Nginx installers for cPanel.

First and foremost, caching actually works with Engintron. It works as it should and it works universally. You install it and ALL your cPanel websites will get accelerated, even the slowest ones. Not only that, your serving capacity will increase tremendously. Simple Apache Benchmark (ab) tests reveal a phenomenal increase in concurrent requests served per second, from just 3-300 in Apache to 15,000-20,000 or even more using Nginx through Engintron. It's our carefully crafted "black box" configuration that does all the magic. And it requires literally almost zero maintenance.

Second, Engintron is a single shell script (weighing only a few KBs) that installs all required software (to make Nginx work as intended) from the each software package's official repository. Both installation and updates are very fast (they take only a few seconds).

Third, since Engintron uses the official repository for Nginx (and others), all installed software will be updated whenever cPanel is updated. So you essentially set it and forget it. In other words, whenever you perform "yum update/upgrade" or upgrade the server software from within WHM, Nginx will be updated if a new release is available. Additionally, when an Engintron update is available (or if you simply borked your Nginx configuration files while testing around and you need to re-install it), you simply install the new version on top of the previous installation through the Engintron WHM app or from the terminal. You don't need to uninstall it first like other Nginx installer plugins for cPanel do.

Fourth, you can safely uninstall Engintron and it will *revert* your entire system to how it was before you installed Engintron. Simple as that. Which means you can try Engintron and if you don't like it or you find it doesn't fit your needs, you can simply uninstall it. Your system will revert to how it was before. Period.

Fifth, it has an amazingly simple yet practical app dashboard inside WHM with all the basic controls for Nginx, Apache, MySQL, the option to edit all important configuration files for these 3 services and even some handy utilities that make Engintron the dashboard in cPanel for your day-to-day sysadmin tasks. Think of it as your cPanel server's mission control. And did we mention you can easily update Engintron from within WHM? Yeap! You even get update notifications when a new version is available.

Sixth, it's CloudFlare friendly. Because both CloudFlare and Engintron use Nginx as a reverse caching proxy, unless we configure Nginx in cPanel to properly act as the secondary proxy (after CloudFlare of course), chances are that CloudFlare will freak out and serve your sites with 10xx errors. So, if you have any domains hosted on your cPanel server that use CloudFlare for their CDN, you just set your server IPs inside your "custom\_rules" Nginx configuration file (the file is commented for your help) and just restart Nginx for the changes to take effect. All this is done entirely inside WHM of course.

Seventh, it doesn't require Nginx/Apache vhost synchronization when adding new domains via cPanel. That's why you essentially "set it and forget it". Have a look at the other Nginx installers... 'Nough said ;)

Eighth, Engintron allows for both HTTP and HTTPS traffic to flow through Nginx entirely, as of version 1.8.0.

And finally, Engintron is 100% open source. You can tear it apart, customize it, fork it, knife it or contribute back to its development. Do whatever you want with it :)