The most optimal (and safest) way to run PHP on your cPanel server is currently as a FastCGI module. To optimize PHP when setup as a FastCGI module, you need to modify the related configuration file located under: /usr/local/apache/conf/php.conf

For some initial insights, have a look here:

http://2bits.com/articles/apache-fcgid-acceptable-performance-and-better-resource-utilization.html

& here:

https://www.cloudlinux.com/blog/clnews/perfecting-fastcgi-settings-for-shared-hosting.php

Now, as I stated above, the file to edit on your server is: /usr/local/apache/conf/php.conf

If you have Engintron on, just open the file via Engintron's WHM app dashboard.

Backup its existing contents into some text file on your computer and then paste back in the following configuration:

	# This file was automatically generated by the Cpanel PHP Configuration system
	# If you wish to change the way PHP is being handled by Apache on your system,
	# use the /usr/local/cpanel/bin/rebuild_phpconf script or the WHM interface.
	#
	# Manual edits of this file will be lost when Apache is updated.
	
	###
	# REBUILD
	# $ /usr/local/cpanel/bin/apache_conf_distiller --update; /scripts/rebuildhttpdconf; service httpd restart;
	###
	
	# Fastcgi configuration for PHP5
	LoadModule fcgid_module modules/mod_fcgid.so
	
	FcgidBusyTimeout                300
	FcgidConnectTimeout             300
	FcgidIOTimeout                  300
	FcgidIdleScanInterval           120
	FcgidIdleTimeout                300
	# Maximum HTTP request length. Set to 256MB to prevent 500 errors (below).
	FcgidMaxRequestLen              268435456
	FcgidMaxRequestsPerProcess      5000
	FcgidMinProcessesPerClass       0
	FcgidMaxProcessesPerClass       8
	FcgidMaxProcesses               150
	FcgidProcessLifeTime            120
	
	AddHandler fcgid-script .php5 .php4 .php .php3 .php2 .phtml
	FcgidWrapper /usr/local/cpanel/cgi-sys/php5 .php5
	FcgidWrapper /usr/local/cpanel/cgi-sys/php5 .php4
	FcgidWrapper /usr/local/cpanel/cgi-sys/php5 .php
	FcgidWrapper /usr/local/cpanel/cgi-sys/php5 .php3
	FcgidWrapper /usr/local/cpanel/cgi-sys/php5 .php2
	FcgidWrapper /usr/local/cpanel/cgi-sys/php5 .phtml
	
	# End of autogenerated PHP configuration.


After you edit this file, it is VERY IMPORTANT that you "merge" these changes with cPanel so they don't get reset to the defaults when Apache's configuration is updated.

If however you rebuild Apache & PHP via EasyApache, you will need to run the entire process AGAIN as the changes to php.conf are entirely reset.

So after you edit the php.conf file, execute the following commands as root via SSH:

_$ /usr/local/cpanel/bin/apache_conf_distiller --update  
$ /scripts/rebuildhttpdconf  
$ service httpd restart_

And now PHP/FastCGI is ready to handle content in a more optimal way, consuming less CPU/RAM resources from the server.